Time complexity and space complexity are ways of describing how efficient an algorithm is. An algorithm is a set of steps for solving a problem, such as finding the biggest number in a list of numbers.

Time complexity is a measure of how long an algorithm takes to run, depending on the size of the input it's given. For example, if you have a list of 10 numbers, it might take the algorithm one second to find the biggest number. But if you have a list of 100 numbers, it might take the algorithm two seconds, and if you have a list of 1000 numbers, it might take the algorithm five seconds. As the size of the input grows, the time it takes for the algorithm to run grows too.

Space complexity is a measure of how much memory an algorithm needs to run, depending on the size of the input. For example, if you have a list of 10 numbers, the algorithm might need to use 10 bytes of memory to store the numbers and keep track of them. But if you have a list of 100 numbers, the algorithm might need to use 100 bytes of memory, and if you have a list of 1000 numbers, the algorithm might need to use 1000 bytes of memory. As the size of the input grows, the amount of memory the algorithm needs to run grows too.

Time and space complexity are important because they tell us how well an algorithm can scale. If an algorithm has a good time and space complexity, it will be able to solve big problems quickly and efficiently, even if the input is very large. But if an algorithm has a bad time or space complexity, it might be slow or use up too much memory, which can make it difficult to use for big problems.